# 2024
Title: Raman spectra of amino acids and peptides from machine learning polarizabilities.
Author:Berger
Abstract: Raman spectroscopy is an important tool in the study of vibrational properties and composition of molecules, peptides, and even proteins. Raman spectra can be simulated based on the change of the electronic polarizability with vibrations, which can nowadays be efficiently obtained via machine learning models trained on first-principles data. However, the transferability of the models trained on small molecules to larger structures is unclear, and direct training on large structures is prohibitively expensive. In this work, we first train two machine learning models to predict the polarizabilities of all 20 amino acids. Both models are carefully benchmarked and compared to density functional theory (DFT) calculations, with the neural network method being found to offer better transferability. By combination of machine learning models with classical force field molecular dynamics, Raman spectra of all amino acids are also obtained and investigated, showing good agreement with experiments. The models are further extended to small peptides. We find that adding structures containing peptide bonds to the training set greatly improves predictions, even for peptides not included in training sets.

Title: Nuclear quantum effects on the electronic structure of water and ice. 
Author: Berrens
Abstract: The electronic properties and optical response of ice and water are intricately shaped by their molecular structure, including the quantum mechanical nature of the hydrogen atoms. Despite numerous previous studies, a comprehensive understanding of the nuclear quantum effects (NQEs) on the electronic structure of water and ice at finite temperatures remains elusive. Here, we utilize molecular simulations that harness efficient machine-learning potentials and many-body perturbation theory to assess how NQEs impact the electronic bands of water and hexagonal ice. By comparing path-integral and classical simulations, we find that NQEs lead to a larger renormalization of the fundamental gap of ice, compared to that of water, ultimately yielding similar bandgaps in the two systems, consistent with experimental estimates. Our calculations suggest that the increased quantum mechanical delocalization of protons in ice, relative to water, is a key factor leading to the enhancement of NQEs on the electronic structure of ice.

Title: Impact of Organic Spacers and Dimensionality on Templating of Halide Perovskites
Author: Erik Fransson
Abstract: Two-dimensional (2D) halide perovskites (HPs) are promising materials for various optoelectronic applications; yet, a comprehensive understanding of their dynamics is still elusive. Here, we offer insight into the dynamics of prototypical 2D HPs based on MAPbI3 as a function of linker molecule and the number of perovskite layers using atomic-scale simulations. We show that the layers closest to the linker undergo transitions that are distinct from those of the interior layers. These transitions can take place anywhere between a few tens of Kelvin degrees below and more than 100 K above the cubic–tetragonal transition of bulk MAPbI3. In combination with the thickness of the perovskite layer, this enables one to template phase transitions and tune the dynamics over a wide temperature range. Our results thereby reveal the details of an important and generalizable design mechanism for tuning the properties of these materials.



Title: Interfacial Optimization for AlN/Diamond Heterostructures via Machine Learning Potential Molecular Dynamics Investigation of the Mechanical Properties
Author: Zijun Qi
Abstract: AlN/diamond heterostructures hold tremendous promise for the development of next-generation high-power electronic devices due to their ultrawide band gaps and other exceptional properties. However, the poor adhesion at the AlN/diamond interface is a significant challenge that will lead to film delamination and device performance degradation. In this study, the uniaxial tensile failure of the AlN/diamond heterogeneous interfaces was investigated by molecular dynamics simulations based on a neuroevolutionary machine learning potential (NEP) model. The interatomic interactions can be successfully described by trained NEP, the reliability of which has been demonstrated by the prediction of the cleavage planes of AlN and diamond. It can be revealed that the annealing treatment can reduce the total potential energy by enhancing the binding of the C and N atoms at interfaces. The strain engineering of AlN also has an important impact on the mechanical properties of the interface. Furthermore, the influence of the surface roughness and interfacial nanostructures on the AlN/diamond heterostructures has been considered. It can be indicated that the combination of surface roughness reduction, AlN strain engineering, and annealing treatment can effectively result in superior and more stable interfacial mechanical properties, which can provide a promising solution to the optimization of mechanical properties, of ultrawide band gap semiconductor heterostructures.



Title: Effect of Interlayer Bonding on Superlubric Sliding of Graphene Contacts: A Machine-Learning Potential Study
Author: Penghua Ying
Abstract: Surface defects and their mutual interactions are anticipated to affect the superlubric sliding of incommensurate layered material interfaces. Atomistic understanding of this phenomenon is limited due to the high computational cost of ab initio simulations and the absence of reliable classical force-fields for molecular dynamics simulations of defected systems. To address this, we present a machine-learning potential (MLP) for bilayer defected graphene, utilizing state-of-the-art graph neural networks trained against many-body dispersion corrected density functional theory calculations under iterative configuration space exploration. The developed MLP is utilized to study the impact of interlayer bonding on the friction of bilayer defected graphene interfaces. While a mild effect on the sliding dynamics of aligned graphene interfaces is observed, the friction coefficients of incommensurate graphene interfaces are found to significantly increase due to interlayer bonding, nearly pushing the system out of the superlubric regime. The methodology utilized herein is of general nature and can be adapted to describe other homogeneous and heterogeneous defected layered material interfaces.



Title: The thermoelastic properties of monolayer covalent organic frameworks studied by machine-learning molecular dynamics
Author: Wang
Abstract: Two-dimensional (2D) covalent organic frameworks (COFs) are emerging as promising 2D polymeric materials with broad applications owing to their unique properties, among which the mechanical properties are quite important for various applications. However, the mechanical properties of 2D COFs have not been systematically studied yet. Herein, a machine-learned neuroevolution potential (NEP) was developed to study the elastic properties of two representative monolayer 2D COFs, namely COF-1 and COF-5. The trained NEP enables one to study the elastic properties of 2D COFs in realistic situations (e.g., finite size and temperature) and possesses greatly improved computational efficiency when compared with density functional theory calculations. With the aid of the obtained NEP, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations together with a strain-fluctuation method were employed to evaluate the elastic constants of the considered 2D COFs at different temperatures. The elastic constants of COF-1 and COF-5 monolayers were found to decrease with an increase in the temperature, though they were almost isotropic irrespective of the temperature. The thermally induced softening of 2D COFs below a critical temperature was observed, which is mainly attributed to their inherent ripple configurations at finite temperatures, while above the critical temperature, the damping effect of anharmonic vibrations became the dominant factor. Based on the proposed mechanisms, analytical models were developed for capturing the temperature dependence of elastic constants, which were found to agree with the MD simulation results well. This work provides an in-depth insight into the thermoelastic properties of monolayer COFs, which can guide the development of 2D COF materials with tailored mechanical behaviors for enhancing their performance in various applications.


Title: Impact of strain-insensitive low-frequency phonon modes on lattice thermal transport in A2⁢𝑋⁢B6-type perovskites
Author: Cheng
Abstract: Substrate induces mechanical strain on perovskite devices, which can result in alterations to its lattice dynamics and thermal transport. Herein, we have performed a theoretical investigation on the anharmonic lattice dynamics and thermal property of perovskite Rb2⁢SnBr6 and Cs2⁢SnBr6 under strains using perturbation theory up to the fourth-order terms and the unified thermal transport theory. We demonstrate a pronounced hardening of low-frequency optical phonons as temperature increases, indicating strong lattice anharmonicity and the necessity of adopting temperature-dependent interatomic force constants in the lattice thermal conductivity (𝜅L) calculations. It is found that the low-lying optical phonon modes of Rb2⁢SnBr6 are extremely soft and their phonon energies are almost strain independent, which ultimately lead to a lower 𝜅L and a weaker strain dependence than Cs2⁢SnBr6. We further reveal that the strain dependence of these phonon modes in the A2⁢𝑋⁢𝐵6 -type perovskites weakens as their vibrational frequency decreases. This study deepens the understanding of lattice thermal transport in perovskites A2⁢𝑋⁢B6 and provides a perspective on the selection of materials that meet the expected thermal behaviors in practical applications.



Title: Anomalous strain-dependent thermal conductivity in the metal-organic framework HKUST-1
Author: Fan
Abstract: Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have often been used for gas storage owing to their high surface areas and nanoscale pores, where they are packed in the tank. The concomitant exothermicity and endothermicity during the gas storage process strongly affect their storage capacity. Understanding the thermal transport in MOFs under mechanical strain is critical to maximizing the gas uptake capacity of MOFs. Here, we systematically investigate the thermal transport in a typical MOF (i.e., HKUST-1 or equivalently MOF-199) considering the external mechanical strain using molecular dynamics simulations. We find that the thermal conductivity of HKUST-1 decreases with compressive strain and increases with tensile strain, which is contradictory to the classical Liebfried and Schlömann theory, i.e., the thermal conductivity of crystals should increase with applied compression. Our spectral analysis further shows that the abnormal strain-dependent thermal conductivity can be well explained by the phonon-gas theory. We find that the relaxation time of vibrations in HKUST-1 decreases when compressive strain is applied. This is because the anharmonicity of compressed HKUST-1 increases compared with that of pristine HKUST-1. The anharmonicity of HKUST-1 decreases when tensile strain is applied, and thus, the corresponding vibrational relaxation time increases. Meanwhile, the vibrational group velocity decreases or increases for compressed or tensile HKUST-1, respectively. This is due to the compression- or stretch-induced shift of vibrational branches caused by the structural softening and hardening. Therefore, the thermal conductivity of HKUST-1 decreases with compressive strain even though the volumetric heat capacity of compressed HKUST-1 increases. The thermal conductivity of HKUST-1 increases with tensile strain, though the corresponding volumetric heat capacity decreases. Here, we provide a fundamental understanding of the thermal transport mechanisms in MOFs considering mechanical strain, which offers guidance for the thermal management design in these corresponding gas storage applications.

Title: Convergent thermal conductivity in strained monolayer graphene
Author: Li
Abstract: The strain dependence of thermal conductivity (κ) in monolayer graphene, with reports of enhancement, suppression, or even divergence, has been highly controversial. To address this open question, we have systematically investigated the effects of tensile strain on the κ of graphene using the exact solution of the Peierls-Boltzmann transport equation based on the first-principles interatomic force constants combined with machine learning assisted molecular dynamics simulations. In contrast to previous studies, we find that the κ in the strained graphene is convergent after considering four-phonon scattering, which is dominant for the long-wavelength flexural phonons because of its much weaker frequency dependence (𝜏−1 4∝𝜔𝛽 with β < 2) compared to the three-phonon scattering case (𝜏−1 3∝𝜔𝛽 with β > 2). Furthermore, κ exhibits nonmonotonic variations with increasing strain up to 8% due to the competition between phonon lifetime, group velocity, and heat capacity of acoustic phonons. Our results deepen the fundamental understanding of thermal transport in strained graphene and offer insights for tuning the thermal properties of two-dimensional materials through strain engineering.


Title: Unraveling the mechanisms of thermal boundary conductance at the graphene-silicon interface: Insights from ballistic, diffusive, and localized phonon transport regimes
Author: Yue
Abstract: Effective heat dissipation is critical for the performance and longevity of electronic devices. This study delves into the intricacies of thermal boundary conductance (TBC) between multilayer graphene and silicon, scrutinizing its correlation with graphene thickness. Employing a combination of the no-transducer time-domain thermal reflection technique and nonequilibrium molecular dynamics simulations with empirical and machine-learning based potentials, we discover an intriguing behavior: TBC initially increases with graphene thickness, but it eventually converges, suggesting that this phenomenon originates from the transition of the phonon transport from the ballistic to the diffusive regime in multilayer graphene. It is further demonstrated that a graphene-MoS2 heterostructure exhibits a thickness-independent TBC behavior due to the strong phonon localization across the entire frequency range. The present study emphasizes the significance of incorporating phonon transport regimes in the design and optimization of thermal interfaces, laying the groundwork for innovative strategies to enhance heat dissipation in electronic devices.

=====================================================================================================

# 2023 year

Title: Tuning the Through-Plane Lattice Thermal Conductivity in van der Waals Structures through Rotational (Dis)ordering
Author: Eriksson
Abstract: It has recently been demonstrated that MoS2 with irregular interlayer rotations can achieve an extreme anisotropy in the lattice thermal conductivity (LTC), which is, for example, of interest for applications in waste heat management in integrated circuits. Here, we show by atomic-scale simulations based on machine-learned potentials that this principle extends to other two-dimensional materials, including C and BN. In all three materials, introducing rotational disorder drives the through-plane LTC to the glass limit, while the in-plane LTC remains almost unchanged compared to those of the ideal bulk materials. We demonstrate that the ultralow through-plane LTC is connected to the collapse of their transverse acoustic modes in the through-plane direction. Furthermore, we find that the twist angle in periodic moiré structures representing rotational order provides an efficient means for tuning the through-plane LTC that operates for all chemistries considered here. The minimal through-plane LTC is obtained for angles between 1 and 4° depending on the material, with the biggest effect in MoS2. The angular dependence is correlated with the degree of stacking disorder in the materials, which in turn is connected to the slip surface. This provides a simple descriptor for predicting the optimal conditions at which the LTC is expected to become minimal.

Title: Revealing the Free Energy Landscape of Halide Perovskites: Metastability and Transition Characters in CsPbBr3 and MAPbI3
Author: Fransson
Abstract: Halide perovskites have emerged as a promising class of materials for photovoltaic applications. A challenge of these applications is preventing the crystal structure from degrading to photovoltaically inactive phases, which requires an understanding of the free energy landscape of these materials. Here, we uncover the free energy landscape of two prototypical halide perovskites, CsPbBr3 and MAPbI3, via atomic-scale simulations using umbrella sampling and machine-learned potentials. For CsPbBr3, we find very small free energy differences and barriers close to the transition temperatures for both the tetragonal-to-cubic and orthorhombic-to-tetragonal transitions. For MAPbI3, however, the situation is more intricate. In particular, the orthorhombic-to-tetragonal transition exhibits a large free energy barrier, and there are several competing tetragonal phases. Using large-scale molecular dynamics simulations, we explore the character of these transitions and observe the latent heat and a discrete change in the structural parameters for the tetragonal-to-cubic phase transitions in both CsPbBr3 and MAPbI3, indicating first-order transitions. We find that in MAPbI3, the orthorhombic phase has an extended metastability range, and we identify a second metastable tetragonal phase. Finally, we compile a phase diagram for MAPbI3 that includes potential metastable phases.


Title: Limits of the phonon quasi-particle picture at the cubic-to-tetragonal phase transition in halide perovskites
Author: Fransson
Abstract: The soft modes associated with continuous-order phase transitions are associated with strong anharmonicity. This leads to the overdamped limit where the phonon quasi-particle picture can break down. However, this limit is commonly restricted to a narrow temperature range, making it difficult to observe its signature feature, namely the breakdown of the inverse relationship between the relaxation time and damping. Here we present a physically intuitive picture based on the relaxation times of the mode coordinate and its conjugate momentum, which at the instability approach infinity and the inverse damping factor, respectively. We demonstrate this behavior for the cubic-to-tetragonal phase transition of the inorganic halide perovskite CsPbBr3 via molecular dynamics simulations, and show that the overdamped region extends almost 200 K above the transition temperature. Further, we investigate how the dynamics of these soft phonon modes change when crossing the phase transition.


Title: Phase Transitions in Inorganic Halide Perovskites from Machine-Learned Potentials
Author: Fransson
Abstract: The atomic scale dynamics of halide perovskites have a direct impact not only on their thermal stability but also on their optoelectronic properties. Progress in machine-learned potentials has only recently enabled modeling the finite temperature behavior of these materials using fully atomistic methods with near first-principles accuracy. Here, we systematically analyze the impact of heating and cooling rate, simulation size, model uncertainty, and the role of the underlying exchange-correlation functional on the phase behavior of CsPbX3 with X = Cl, Br, and I, including both the perovskite and the δ-phases. We show that rates below approximately 60 K/ns and system sizes of at least a few tens of thousands of atoms should be used to achieve convergence with regard to these parameters. By controlling these factors and constructing models that are specific for different exchange-correlation functionals, we then assess the behavior of seven widely used semilocal functionals (LDA, vdW-DF-cx, SCAN, SCAN+rVV10, PBEsol, PBE, and PBE+D3). The models based on LDA, vdW-DF-cx, and SCAN+rVV10 agree well with experimental data for the tetragonal-to-cubic-perovskite transition temperature in CsPbI3 and also achieve reasonable agreement for the perovskite-to-delta phase transition temperature. They systematically underestimate, however, the orthorhombic-to-tetragonal transition temperature. All other models, including those for CsPbBr3 and CsPbCl3, predict transition temperatures below the experimentally observed values for all transitions considered here. Among the considered functionals, vdW-DF-cx and SCAN+rVV10 yield the closest agreement with experiment, followed by LDA, SCAN, PBEsol, PBE, and PBE+D3. Our work provides guidelines for the systematic analysis of dynamics and phase transitions in inorganic halide perovskites and similar systems. It also serves as a benchmark for the further development of machine-learned potentials as well as exchange-correlation functionals.


Title: Sub-Micrometer Phonon Mean Free Paths in Metal–Organic Frameworks Revealed by Machine Learning Molecular Dynamics Simulations
Author: Ying
Abstract: Metal–organic frameworks (MOFs) are a family of materials that have high porosity and structural tunability and hold great potential in various applications, many of which require a proper understanding of the thermal transport properties. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations play an important role in characterizing the thermal transport properties of various materials. However, due to the complexity of the structures, it is difficult to construct accurate empirical interatomic potentials for reliable MD simulations of MOFs. To this end, we develop a set of accurate yet highly efficient machine-learned potentials for three typical MOFs, including MOF-5, HKUST-1, and ZIF-8, using the neuroevolution potential approach as implemented in the GPUMD package, and perform extensive MD simulations to study thermal transport in the three MOFs. Although the lattice thermal conductivity values of the three MOFs are all predicted to be smaller than 1 W/(m K) at room temperature, the phonon mean free paths (MFPs) are found to reach the sub-micrometer scale in the low-frequency region. As a consequence, the apparent thermal conductivity only converges to the diffusive limit for micrometer single crystals, which means that the thermal conductivity is heavily reduced in nanocrystalline MOFs. The sub-micrometer phonon MFPs are also found to be correlated with a moderate temperature dependence of thermal conductivity between those in typical crystalline and amorphous materials. Both the large phonon MFPs and the moderate temperature dependence of thermal conductivity fundamentally change our understanding of thermal transport in MOFs.


Title: Lattice dynamics and thermal transport of PbTe under high pressure
Author: Cheng
Abstract: Understanding the high-pressure lattice dynamics is crucial to modulate the thermal transport in thermoelectric materials beyond the ambient environment. Herein, using molecular dynamics simulations in combination with an accurate machine-learning interatomic potential, we find the well-known double-peak feature of the transverse-optical (TO) mode in PbTe gradually vanishes when pressure is enhanced. An anomalous nonmonotonic pressure dependence of the frequency of the transverse-acoustic phonon in PbTe is computationally reproduced. The longitudinal-acoustic, longitudinal-optical, and TO phonons harden as expected when pressure increases. The theoretical results are compared with inelastic neutron scattering experimental data. We have also calculated the pressure-dependent lattice thermal conductivity and revealed the phonon transport mechanisms.


Title: Low lattice thermal conductivity with two-channel thermal transport in the superatomic crystal P⁢H4⁢Al⁢Br4
Author: Du
Abstract: Designing novel crystalline materials composed of light and nontoxic elements, but with ultralow thermal conductivity insensitive to temperature, has been a long-standing challenge. One effective strategy is to utilize superatoms as building blocks to introduce hierarchical bonding and vibration for suppressing phonon velocity and enhancing high-order scattering. However, far fewer theoretical efforts have been made to understand the lattice dynamics and thermal transport in superatom-based materials. Herein, different from most of the existing works reported hitherto on atom-superatom hybrid systems, we carry out a comprehensive study on the phonon interaction and thermal transport in superatomic crystal P⁢H4⁢Al⁢Br4 solely consisting of superatoms (superalkali and superhalogen), by employing homogeneous nonequilibrium molecular dynamics with active-learning potential, combined with density functional theory and unified theory of phonon thermal transport. We find that the supersalt P⁢H4⁢Al⁢Br4 crystal exhibits amorphouslike ultralow lattice thermal conductivity of 0.329−0.286Wm−1K−1 from 200 to 600 K. In particular, due to the strong quartic anharmonicity, the contribution of four-phonon scattering reaches 38% of total scattering rates at 300 K, while the phonon coherence's contribution is comparable with that of population, resulting from significant phonon localization. These theoretical findings demonstrate that superatom-assembled materials exhibit features distinguished from atom-based crystals and provide a unique platform for exploring ultralow thermal conductivity with enhanced two-channel thermal transport.


Title: Mechanisms of temperature-dependent thermal transport in amorphous silica from machine-learning molecular dynamics
Author: Liang
Abstract: Amorphous silica (a-SiO2) is a foundational disordered material for which the thermal transport properties are important for various applications. To accurately model the interatomic interactions in classical molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of thermal transport in a-SiO2, we herein develop an accurate yet highly efficient machine-learned potential model that allows us to generate a-SiO2 samples closely resembling experimentally produced ones. Using the homogeneous nonequilibrium MD method and a proper quantum-statistical correction to the classical MD results, quantitative agreement with experiments is achieved for the thermal conductivities of bulk and 190-nm-thick a-SiO2 films over a wide range of temperatures. To interrogate the thermal vibrations at different temperatures, we calculated the current correlation functions corresponding to the transverse acoustic and longitudinal acoustic collective vibrations. The results reveal that, below the Ioffe-Regel crossover frequency, phonons as well-defined excitations remain applicable in a-SiO2 and play a predominant role at low temperatures, resulting in a temperature-dependent increase in thermal conductivity. In the high-temperature region, more phonons are excited, accompanied by a more intense liquidlike diffusion event. We attribute the temperature-independent thermal conductivity in the high-temperature range of a-SiO2 to the collaborative involvement of excited phonon scattering and liquidlike diffusion in heat conduction. These findings provide physical insights into the thermal transport of a-SiO2 and are expected to be applied to a vast range of amorphous materials.


Title: Large-scale machine-learning molecular dynamics simulation of primary radiation damage in tungsten
Author: Liu
Abstract: Simulating collision cascades and radiation damage poses a long-standing challenge for existing interatomic potentials, both in terms of accuracy and efficiency. Machine-learning-based interatomic potentials have shown sufficiently high accuracy for radiation damage simulations, but most existing ones are still not efficient enough to model high-energy collision cascades with sufficiently large space and timescales. To this end, we here extend the highly efficient neuroevolution potential (NEP) framework by combining it with the Ziegler-Biersack-Littmark (ZBL) screened nuclear repulsion potential, obtaining a NEP-ZBL framework. We train a NEP-ZBL model for tungsten and demonstrate its accuracy in terms of the elastic properties, melting point, and various energetics of defects that are relevant for radiation damage. We then perform large-scale molecular dynamics simulations with the NEP-ZBL model with up to 8.1 million atoms and 240 ps (using a single 40-GB A100 GPU) to study the difference of primary radiation damage in both bulk and thin-foil tungsten. While our findings for bulk tungsten are consistent with existing results simulated by embedded atom method models, the radiation damage differs significantly in foils and shows that larger and more vacancy clusters as well as smaller and fewer interstitial clusters are produced due to the presence of a free surface.


Title: Modulation of interface modes for resonance-induced enhancement of the interfacial thermal conductance in pillar-based Si/Ge nanowires
Author: LiuYZ
Abstract: The interfacial thermal conductance (ITC) plays a crucial role in nanoscale heat transfer, and its enhancement is of great interest for various applications. In this study, we explore the influence of resonance on the interfacial modes in pillar-based Si/Ge nanowires through nonequilibrium molecular dynamics simulations, employing both empirical and machine-learning potentials. Our results reveal a significant enhancement in the ITC by introducing pillars in the nanowire structure. The resonance-induced enhancement of the matching degree of the phonon density of states together with the calculation results of the phonon transmission coefficient indicate a significant improvement in both elastic and inelastic phonon transport at the interface. Moreover, we demonstrate the effective utilization of resonance to modulate the interfacial modes in pillar-based Si/Ge nanowires, resulting in improved phonon transport efficiency. This modulation is achieved by strategically repositioning the Si and Ge walls near the interface, leading to the development of the ATI-wall structure. Remarkably, the ATI-wall structure exhibits an unprecedented increase in the ITC compared to the original pillar-based design. To provide additional support for our conclusion, we conduct supplementary simulations using graphics processing unit molecular dynamics in conjunction with the neuroevolution potential to calculate the ITC. Our findings highlight the significance of interfacial mode modulation in enhancing the heat transfer in nanoscale systems and provide valuable insights for the design and optimization of thermal management devices and materials.




Title: Role of high-order lattice anharmonicity in the phonon thermal transport of silver halide Ag⁢𝑋 (𝑋=Cl,Br,I)
Author: Ouyang
Abstract: The phonon transport mechanisms and ultralow lattice thermal conductivities (𝜅L) in silver halide Ag⁢𝑋 (𝑋=Cl,Br,I) compounds are not yet well understood. Herein, we study the lattice dynamics and thermal property of Ag⁢𝑋 under the framework of perturbation theory and the two-channel Wigner thermal transport model based on accurate machine learning potentials. We find that an accurate extraction of the third-order atomic force constants from largely displaced configurations is significant for the calculation of the 𝜅L of Ag⁢𝑋, and the coherence thermal transport is also non-negligible. In AgI, however, the calculated 𝜅L still considerably overestimates the experimental values even including four-phonon scatterings. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations using machine learning potential suggest an important role of the higher-than-fourth-order lattice anharmonicity in the low-frequency phonon linewidths of AgI at room temperature, which can be related to the simultaneous restrictions of the three- and four-phonon phase spaces. The 𝜅L of AgI calculated using MD phonon lifetimes including full-order lattice anharmonicity shows a better agreement with experiments.


Title: Anharmonicity of the antiferrodistortive soft mode in barium zirconate BaZrO3
Author:  Rosander
Abstract: Barium zirconate (BaZrO3) is one of the very few perovskites that is claimed to retain an average cubic structure down to 0K, while being energetically very close to an antiferrodistortive phase obtained by condensation of a soft phonon mode at the 𝑅 point of the Brillouin zone boundary. In this work, we report a combined experimental and theoretical study of the temperature dependence of this soft phonon mode. Inelastic neutron and x-ray scattering measurements on single crystals show that it softens substantially from 9.4⁢meV at room temperature to 5.6⁢meV at 2K. In contrast, the acoustic mode at the same 𝑅 point is nearly temperature independent. The effect of the anharmonicity on the lattice dynamics is investigated nonperturbatively using direct dynamic simulations as well as a first-principles-based self-consistent phonon theory, including quantum fluctuations of the atomic motion. By adding cubic and quartic anharmonic force constants, quantitative agreement with the neutron data for the temperature dependence of the antiferrodistortive mode is obtained. The quantum fluctuations of the atomic motion are found to be important to obtain the proper temperature dependence at low temperatures. The mean-squared displacements of the different atoms are determined as function of temperature and are shown to be consistent with available experimental data. Adding anharmonicity to the computed fluctuations of the Ba-O distances also improves the comparison with available extended x-ray absorption fine structure data at 300K.


Title: Phonon transport in freestanding SrTiO3 down to the monolayer limit
Author: Wang
Abstract: Perovskites down to the monolayer limit have emerged and have attracted increased interest due to their two-dimensional nature with potentially novel physical properties. Here, we investigate the phonon transport in the oxide perovskite SrTiO3 with thicknesses from the monolayer limit to 10 nm by constructing an accurate first-principles machine-learning potential and combining it with the Boltzmann transport equation and homogeneous nonequilibrium molecular dynamics simulations. Compared to its bulk counterpart, the phonon dispersion relation of monolayer SrTiO3 is insensitive to temperature, and the calculated in-plane thermal conductivity of monolayer SrTiO3 is much larger than that of bulk SrTiO3, which mainly results from the unique out-of-plane atomic vibrations in monolayer SrTiO3. The thermal conductivity of SrTiO3 thin film first decreases and then approaches the bulk value as thickness increases from the monolayer limit to 10 nm. The hardening of the out-of-plane acoustic phonon branch and the transition of low-frequency optical phonons can explain the observed trend in thermal conductivity transitions. Our study demonstrates that monolayer SrTiO3 has a higher thermal conductivity than its bulk counterpart with covalent bonds at the first-principles level of accuracy, and dimension reduction has a weak inhibition on phonon transport in freestanding atomically smooth SrTiO3 thin films, which furthers the understanding of phonon transport in two-dimensional perovskite thin films.


Title: Quantum-corrected thickness-dependent thermal conductivity in amorphous silicon predicted by machine learning molecular dynamics simulations
Author: Wang YZ
Abstract: Amorphous silicon (a-Si) is an important thermal-management material and also serves as an ideal playground for studying heat transport in strongly disordered materials. Theoretical prediction of the thermal conductivity of a-Si in a wide range of temperatures and sample sizes is still a challenge. Herein we present a systematic investigation of the thermal transport properties of a-Si by employing large-scale molecular dynamics (MD) simulations with an accurate and efficient machine learned neuroevolution potential (NEP) trained against abundant reference data calculated at the quantum-mechanical density-functional-theory level. The high efficiency of NEP allows us to study the effects of finite size and quenching rate in the formation of a-Si in great detail. We find that a simulation cell up to 64000 atoms (a cubic cell with a linear size of 11 nm) and a quenching rate down to 1011 K s−1 are required for almost convergent thermal conductivity. Structural properties, including short- and medium-range order as characterized by the pair-correlation function, angular-distribution function, coordination number, ring statistics, and structure factor are studied to demonstrate the accuracy of NEP and to further evaluate the role of quenching rate. Using both the heterogeneous and homogeneous nonequilibrium MD methods and the related spectral decomposition techniques, we calculate the temperature- and thickness-dependent thermal conductivity values of a-Si and show that they agree well with available experimental results from 10 K to room temperature. Our results also highlight the importance of quantum effects in the calculated thermal conductivity and support the quantum-correction method based on the spectral thermal conductivity.


Title: Vibrational anharmonicity results in decreased thermal conductivity of amorphous HfO2 at high temperature
Author: ZhangHG
Abstract: While the high-temperature thermal transport in crystalline materials has been recently carefully addressed, it is much less explored for amorphous materials. Most of the existing studies have focused on the low-/mid-temperature range and have generally found the increasing trend of thermal conductivity with temperature and converging to a constant value, mainly due to the temperature dependence of heat capacity. In this work, we investigate the temperature-dependent thermal conductivity of amorphous HfO2 with three different methods, including molecular dynamics, the Allen-Feldman theory, and the quasiharmonic Green-Kubo method, with the forces extracted from a machine-learning potential parametrized from first principles. While the Allen-Feldman theory and the quasiharmonic Green-Kubo method show the same temperature dependence trend as the previous expectation even at high temperatures, molecular dynamics simulations show a clear decreasing trend of thermal conductivity at high temperatures. By comparing the results from these approaches, we identify that two anharmonic effects, i.e., thermal expansion and vibrational mode softening, are the mechanisms of the decreased thermal conductivity of amorphous HfO2 at high temperatures.


==========================================================================================

# 2022 


Title: Pressure Stabilized Lithium-Aluminum Compounds with Both Superconducting and Superionic Behaviors
Author: Wang
Abstract: Superconducting and superionic behaviors have physically intriguing dynamic properties of electrons and ions, respectively, both of which are conceptually important and have great potential for practical applications. Whether these two phenomena can appear in the same system is an interesting and important question. Here, using crystal structure predictions and first-principle calculations combined with machine learning, we identify several stable Li-Al compounds with electride behavior under high pressure, and we find that the electronic density of states of some of the compounds has characteristics of the two-dimensional electron gas. Among them, we estimate that Li6⁢Al at 150 GPa has a superconducting transition temperature of around 29 K and enters a superionic state at a high temperature and wide pressure range. The diffusion in Li6⁢Al is found to be affected by an electride and attributed to the atomic collective motion. Our results indicate that alkali metal alloys can be effective platforms to study the abundant physical properties and their manipulation with pressure and temperature.




# 2021

Title: Ultrahigh Convergent Thermal Conductivity of Carbon Nanotubes from Comprehensive Atomistic Modeling
Author: Barbalinardo
Abstract:Anomalous heat transport in one-dimensional nanostructures, such as nanotubes and nanowires, is a widely debated problem in condensed matter and statistical physics, with contradicting pieces of evidence from experiments and simulations. Using a comprehensive modeling approach, comprised of lattice dynamics and molecular dynamics simulations, we proved that the infinite length limit of the thermal conductivity of a (10,0) single-wall carbon nanotube is finite but this limit is reached only for macroscopic lengths due to a thermal phonon mean free path of several millimeters. Our calculations showed that the extremely high thermal conductivity of this system at room temperature is dictated by quantum effects. Modal analysis showed that the divergent nature of thermal conductivity, observed in one-dimensional model systems, is suppressed in carbon nanotubes by anharmonic scattering channels provided by the flexural and optical modes with polarization in the plane orthogonal to the transport direction.



Title: Interpretation of apparent thermal conductivity in finite systems from equilibrium molecular dynamics simulations
Author: Dong
Abstract:We propose a way to properly interpret the apparent thermal conductivity obtained for finite systems using equilibrium molecular dynamics simulations (EMD) with fixed or open boundary conditions in the transport direction. In such systems the heat current autocorrelation function develops negative values after a correlation time which is proportional to the length of the simulation cell in the transport direction. Accordingly, the running thermal conductivity develops a maximum value at the same correlation time and eventually decays to zero. By comparing EMD with nonequilibrium molecular dynamics (NEMD) simulations, we conclude that the maximum thermal conductivity from EMD in a system with domain length 2⁢𝐿 is equal to the thermal conductivity from NEMD in a system with domain length 𝐿. This facilitates the use of nonperiodic-boundary EMD for thermal transport in finite samples in close correspondence to NEMD.




Title: Extremely anisotropic van der Waals thermal conductors
Author: Kim
Abstract:The densification of integrated circuits requires thermal management strategies and high thermal conductivity materials. Recent innovations include the development of materials with thermal conduction anisotropy, which can remove hotspots along the fast-axis direction and provide thermal insulation along the slow axis. However, most artificially engineered thermal conductors have anisotropy ratios much smaller than those seen in naturally anisotropic materials. Here we report extremely anisotropic thermal conductors based on large-area van der Waals thin films with random interlayer rotations, which produce a room-temperature thermal anisotropy ratio close to 900 in MoS2, one of the highest ever reported. This is enabled by the interlayer rotations that impede the through-plane thermal transport, while the long-range intralayer crystallinity maintains high in-plane thermal conductivity. We measure ultralow thermal conductivities in the through-plane direction for MoS2 (57 ± 3 mW m−1 K−1) and WS2 (41 ± 3 mW m−1 K−1) films, and we quantitatively explain these values using molecular dynamics simulations that reveal one-dimensional glass-like thermal transport. Conversely, the in-plane thermal conductivity in these MoS2 films is close to the single-crystal value. Covering nanofabricated gold electrodes with our anisotropic films prevents overheating of the electrodes and blocks heat from reaching the device surface. Our work establishes interlayer rotation in crystalline layered materials as a new degree of freedom for engineering-directed heat transport in solid-state systems.





Title: Mode localization and suppressed heat transport in amorphous alloys
Author: Lundgren
Abstract: Glasses usually represent the lower limit for the thermal conductivity of solids, but a fundamental understanding of lattice heat transport in amorphous materials can provide design rules to beat such a limit. Here we investigate the role of mass disorder in glasses by studying amorphous silicon-germanium alloy (a-Si1−𝑥⁢Ge𝑥) over the full range of atomic concentration from 𝑥=0 to 𝑥=1, using molecular dynamics and the quasiharmonic Green-Kubo lattice dynamics formalism. We find that the thermal conductivity of a-Si1−𝑥⁢Ge𝑥 as a function of 𝑥 exhibits a smoother U shape than in crystalline mass-disordered alloys. The main contribution to the initial drop of thermal conductivity at low Ge concentration stems from the localization of otherwise extended modes that make up the lowest 8% of the population by frequency. Contributions from intermediate frequency modes are decreased more gradually with increasing Ge to reach a broad minimum thermal conductivity between concentrations of Ge from 𝑥=0.25 to 0.75. Modal analysis unravels the correlations among localization, line broadening, and the contribution to thermal transport of modes within different frequency ranges.

===============================================================

# 2020

Title: Phonon confinement and transport in ultrathin films
Author: Fu
Abstract: Thermal transport by phonons in films with thicknesses of less than 10 nm is investigated in a soft system (Lennard-Jones argon) and a stiff system (Tersoff silicon) using two-dimensional lattice dynamics calculations and the Boltzmann transport equation. This approach uses a unit cell that spans the film thickness, which removes approximations related to the finite cross-plane dimension required in typical three-dimensional-based approaches. Molecular dynamics simulations, which make no assumptions about the nature of the thermal transport, are performed to obtain finite-temperature structures for the lattice dynamics calculations and to predict thermal conductivity benchmarks. Thermal conductivity decreases with decreasing film thickness for both the two-dimensional lattice dynamics calculations and the MD simulations, until the thickness reaches four unit cells (2.1 nm) for argon and three unit cells (1.6 nm) for silicon. With a further decrease in film thickness, thermal conductivity plateaus in argon while it increases in silicon. This unexpected behavior, which we identify as a signature of phonon confinement, is a result of an increased contribution from low-frequency phonons, whose density of states increases as the film thickness decreases. Phonon mode-level analysis suggests that confinement effects emerge below thicknesses of ten unit cells (5.3 nm) for argon and six unit cells (3.2 nm) for silicon. These transition points both correspond to approximately twenty atomic layers. Thermal conductivity predictions based on the bulk (i.e., three-dimensional) phonon properties combined with a boundary scattering model do not capture the low thickness behavior. To match the two-dimensional lattice dynamics and molecular dynamics predictions for larger thicknesses, the three-dimensional lattice dynamics calculations require a finite specularity parameter that in some cases approaches unity. These findings point to the challenges associated with interpreting experimental thermal conductivity measurements of ultrathin silicon films, where surface roughness and a native oxide layer impact phonon transport.




===================================================
====================================================
=================================================
# Method

## 2024

Title: Combining the D3 dispersion correction with the neuroevolution machine-learned potential  
Author: Ying
Abstract: Machine-learned potentials (MLPs) have become a popular approach of modeling interatomic interactions in atomistic simulations, but to keep the computational cost under control, a relatively short cutoff must be imposed, which put serious restrictions on the capability of the MLPs for modeling relatively long-ranged dispersion interactions. In this paper, we propose to combine the neuroevolution potential (NEP) with the popular D3 correction to achieve a unified NEP-D3 model that can simultaneously model relatively short-ranged bonded interactions and relatively long-ranged dispersion interactions. We show that improved descriptions of the binding and sliding energies in bilayer graphene can be obtained by the NEP-D3 approach compared to the pure NEP approach. We implement the D3 part into the gpumd package such that it can be used out of the box for many exchange-correlation functionals. As a realistic application, we show that dispersion interactions result in approximately a 10% reduction in thermal conductivity for three typical metal-organic frameworks.




Title: General-purpose machine-learned potential for 16 elemental metals and their alloys  
Author: Song
Abstract: Machine-learned potentials (MLPs) have exhibited remarkable accuracy, yet the lack of general-purpose MLPs for a broad spectrum of elements and their alloys limits their applicability. Here, we present a feasible approach for constructing a unified general-purpose MLP for numerous elements, demonstrated through a model (UNEP-v1) for 16 elemental metals and their alloys. To achieve a complete representation of the chemical space, we show, via principal component analysis and diverse test datasets, that employing one-component and two-component systems suffices. Our unified UNEP-v1 model exhibits superior performance across various physical properties compared to a widely used embedded-atom method potential, while maintaining remarkable efficiency. We demonstrate our approach's effectiveness through reproducing experimentally observed chemical order and stable phases, and large-scale simulations of plasticity and primary radiation damage in MoTaVW alloys. This work represents a significant leap towards a unified general-purpose MLP encompassing the periodic table, with profound implications for materials science.

 
Title: Tensorial properties via the neuroevolution potential framework: Fast simulation of infrared and Raman spectra  
Author: Xu
Abstract: Infrared and Raman spectroscopy are widely used for the characterization of gases, liquids, and solids, as the spectra contain a wealth of information concerning, in particular, the dynamics of these systems. Atomic scale simulations can be used to predict such spectra but are often severely limited due to high computational cost or the need for strong approximations that limit the application range and reliability. Here, we introduce a machine learning (ML) accelerated approach that addresses these shortcomings and provides a significant performance boost in terms of data and computational efficiency compared with earlier ML schemes. To this end, we generalize the neuroevolution potential approach to enable the prediction of rank one and two tensors to obtain the tensorial neuroevolution potential (TNEP) scheme. We apply the resulting framework to construct models for the dipole moment, polarizability, and susceptibility of molecules, liquids, and solids and show that our approach compares favorably with several ML models from the literature with respect to accuracy and computational efficiency. Finally, we demonstrate the application of the TNEP approach to the prediction of infrared and Raman spectra of liquid water, a molecule (PTAF–), and a prototypical perovskite with strong anharmonicity (BaZrO3). The TNEP approach is implemented in the free and open source software package gpumd, which makes this methodology readily available to the scientific community.


 
Title: Solute segregation in polycrystalline aluminum from hybrid Monte Carlo and molecular dynamics simulations with a unified neuroevolution potential  
Author: Song
Abstract: One of the most effective methods to enhance the strength of aluminum alloys involves modifying grain boundaries (GBs) through solute segregation. However, the fundamental mechanisms of solute segregation and their impacts on material properties remain elusive. In this study, we implemented highly efficient hybrid Monte Carlo and molecular dynamics (MCMD) algorithms in the graphics process units molecular dynamics (GPUMD) package. Using this efficient MCMD approach combined with a general-purpose machine-learning-based neuroevolution potential (NEP) for 16 elemental metals and their alloys, we simulated the segregation of 15 solutes in polycrystalline Al. Our results elucidate the segregation behavior and trends of 15 solutes in polycrystalline Al. Additionally, we investigated the impact of solutes on the strength of polycrystalline Al. The mechanisms underlying solute strengthening and embrittlement were analyzed at the atomistic level, revealing the importance of GB cohesion, as well as the nucleation and movement of Shockley dislocations, in determining the material's strength. We anticipate that our developed methods, along with our insights into solute segregation behavior in polycrystalline Al, will be valuable for the design of Al alloys and other multi-component materials, including medium-entropy materials, high-entropy materials, and complex concentrated alloys.

 
Title: Highly efficient path-integral molecular dynamics simulations with GPUMD using neuroevolution potentials: Case studies on thermal properties of materials  
Author: Ying
Abstract: Path-integral molecular dynamics (PIMD) simulations are crucial for accurately capturing nuclear quantum effects in materials. However, their computational intensity and reliance on multiple software packages often limit their applicability at large scales. Here, we present an integration of PIMD methods, including thermostatted ring-polymer molecular dynamics (TRPMD), into the open-source GPUMD package, combined with highly accurate and efficient machine-learned neuroevolution potential (NEP) models. This approach achieves almost the accuracy of first-principles calculations with the computational efficiency of empirical potentials, enabling large-scale atomistic simulations that incorporate nuclear quantum effects. We demonstrate the efficacy of the combined NEP-PIMD approach by examining various thermal properties of diverse materials, including lithium hydride (LiH), three porous metal-organic frameworks (MOFs), and elemental aluminum. For LiH, our NEP-PIMD simulations successfully capture the isotope effect, reproducing the experimentally observed dependence of the lattice parameter on the reduced mass. For MOFs, our results reveal that achieving good agreement with experimental data requires consideration of both nuclear quantum effects and dispersive interactions. For aluminum, the TRPMD method effectively captures thermal expansion and phonon properties, aligning well with quantum mechanical predictions. This efficient NEP-PIMD approach opens new avenues for exploring complex material properties influenced by nuclear quantum effects, with potential applications across a broad range of materials.


## 2023

Title: Large-scale machine-learning molecular dynamics simulation of primary radiation damage in tungsten  
Author: Liu
Abstract:
Simulating collision cascades and radiation damage poses a long-standing challenge for existing interatomic potentials, both in terms of accuracy and efficiency. Machine-learning-based interatomic potentials have shown sufficiently high accuracy for radiation damage simulations, but most existing ones are still not efficient enough to model high-energy collision cascades with sufficiently large space and timescales. To this end, we here extend the highly efficient neuroevolution potential (NEP) framework by combining it with the Ziegler-Biersack-Littmark (ZBL) screened nuclear repulsion potential, obtaining a NEP-ZBL framework. We train a NEP-ZBL model for tungsten and demonstrate its accuracy in terms of the elastic properties, melting point, and various energetics of defects that are relevant for radiation damage. We then perform large-scale molecular dynamics simulations with the NEP-ZBL model with up to 8.1 million atoms and 240 ps (using a single 40-GB A100 GPU) to study the difference of primary radiation damage in both bulk and thin-foil tungsten. While our findings for bulk tungsten are consistent with existing results simulated by embedded atom method models, the radiation damage differs significantly in foils and shows that larger and more vacancy clusters as well as smaller and fewer interstitial clusters are produced due to the presence of a free surface.

 
Title: Double-Shock Compression Pathways from Diamond to BC8 Carbon  
Author: Shi
Abstract: Carbon is one of the most important elements for both industrial applications and fundamental research, including life, physics, chemistry, materials, and even planetary science. Although theoretical predictions on the transition from diamond to the BC8 carbon were made more than thirty years ago, after tremendous experimental efforts, direct evidence for the existence of BC8 carbon is still lacking. In this study, a machine learning potential was developed for high-pressure carbon fitted from first-principles calculations, which exhibited great capabilities in modeling the melting and Hugoniot line. Using the molecular dynamics based on this machine learning potential, we designed a thermodynamic pathway that is achievable for the double shock compression experiment to obtain the elusive BC8 carbon. Diamond was compressed up to 584 GPa after the first shock at 2⁢0.5  km/s. Subsequently, in the second shock compression at 24.8 or 2⁢5.0  km/s, diamond was compressed to a supercooled liquid and then solidified to BC8 in around 1 ns. Furthermore, the critical nucleus size and nucleation rate of BC8 were calculated, which are crucial for nano-second x-ray diffraction measurements to observe BC8 carbon during shock compressions. The key to obtaining BC8 carbon lies in the formation of liquid at a sufficient supercooling. Our work provides a feasible pathway by which the long-sought BC8 phase of carbon can be reached in experiments.


# 2022
 
Title: Improving the accuracy of the neuroevolution machine learning potentials for multi-component systems  
Author: Fan
Abstract: In a previous paper Fan et al (2021 Phys. Rev. B 104, 104309), we developed the neuroevolution potential (NEP), a framework of training neural network based machine-learning potentials using a natural evolution strategy and performing molecular dynamics (MD) simulations using the trained potentials. The atom-environment descriptor in NEP was constructed based on a set of radial and angular functions. For multi-component systems, all the radial functions between two atoms are multiplied by some fixed factors that depend on the types of the two atoms only. In this paper, we introduce an improved descriptor for multi-component systems, in which different radial functions are multiplied by different factors that are also optimized during the training process, and show that it can significantly improve the regression accuracy without increasing the computational cost in MD simulations.


Title: GPUMD: A package for constructing accurate machine-learned potentials and performing highly efficient atomistic simulations  
Author: Fan
Abstract: We present our latest advancements of machine-learned potentials (MLPs) based on the neuroevolution potential (NEP) framework introduced in Fan et al. [Phys. Rev. B 104, 104309 (2021)] and their implementation in the open-source package gpumd. We increase the accuracy of NEP models both by improving the radial functions in the atomic-environment descriptor using a linear combination of Chebyshev basis functions and by extending the angular descriptor with some four-body and five-body contributions as in the atomic cluster expansion approach. We also detail our efficient implementation of the NEP approach in graphics processing units as well as our workflow for the construction of NEP models and demonstrate their application in large-scale atomistic simulations. By comparing to state-of-the-art MLPs, we show that the NEP approach not only achieves above-average accuracy but also is far more computationally efficient. These results demonstrate that the gpumd package is a promising tool for solving challenging problems requiring highly accurate, large-scale atomistic simulations. To enable the construction of MLPs using a minimal training set, we propose an active-learning scheme based on the latent space of a pre-trained NEP model. Finally, we introduce three separate Python packages, viz., gpyumd, calorine, and pynep, that enable the integration of gpumd into Python workflows.

# 2021
 
Title: Spectral Decomposition of Thermal Conductivity: Comparing Velocity Decomposition Methods in Homogeneous Molecular Dynamics Simulations  
Author: Gabourie
ABSTRACT: The design of applications, especially those based on heterogeneous integration, must rely on detailed knowledge of material properties, such as thermal conductivity (TC). To this end, multiple methods have been developed to study TC as a function of vibrational frequency. Here, we compare three spectral TC methods based on velocity decomposition in homogenous molecular dynamics simulations: Green-Kubo modal analysis (GKMA), the spectral heat current (SHC) method, and a method we propose called homogeneous nonequilibrium modal analysis (HNEMA). First, we derive a convenient per-atom virial expression for systems described by general many-body potentials, enabling compact representations of the heat current, each velocity decomposition method, and other related quantities. Next, we evaluate each method by calculating the spectral TC for carbon nanotubes, graphene, and silicon. We show that each method qualitatively agrees except at optical phonon frequencies, where a combination of mismatched eigenvectors and a large density of states produces artificial TC peaks for modal analysis (MA) methods. Our calculations also show that the HNEMA and SHC methods converge much faster than the GKMA method, with the SHC method being the most computationally efficient. Finally, we demonstrate that our MA implementation in the Graphics Processing Units Molecular Dynamics code on a single graphics processing unit is over 1000 times faster than the existing implementation in the Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator code on one central processing unit.



Title: Neuroevolution machine learning potentials: Combining high accuracy and low cost in atomistic simulations and application to heat transport  
Author: Fan
Abstract: We develop a neuroevolution-potential (NEP) framework for generating neural network-based machine-learning potentials. They are trained using an evolutionary strategy for performing large-scale molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. A descriptor of the atomic environment is constructed based on Chebyshev and Legendre polynomials. The method is implemented in graphic processing units within the open-source gpumd package, which can attain a computational speed over 107 atom-step per second using one Nvidia Tesla V100. Furthermore, per-atom heat current is available in NEP, which paves the way for efficient and accurate MD simulations of heat transport in materials with strong phonon anharmonicity or spatial disorder, which usually cannot be accurately treated either with traditional empirical potentials or with perturbative methods.



Title: Efficient calculation of the lattice thermal conductivity by atomistic simulations with ab-initio accuracy  
Author: Brorsson
Abstract: High-order force constant expansions can provide accurate representations of the potential energy surface relevant to vibrational motion. They can be efficiently parametrized using quantum mechanical calculations and subsequently sampled at a fraction of the cost of the underlying reference calculations. Here, force constant expansions are combined via the hiphive package with GPU-accelerated molecular dynamics simulations via the GPUMD package to obtain an accurate, transferable, and efficient approach for sampling the dynamical properties of materials. The performance of this methodology is demonstrated by applying it both to materials with very low thermal conductivity (Ba8Ga16Ge30, SnSe) and a material with a relatively high lattice thermal conductivity (monolayer-MoS2). These cases cover both situations with weak (monolayer-MoS2, SnSe) and strong (Ba8Ga16Ge30) pho renormalization. The simulations also enable to access complementary information such as the spectral thermal conductivity, which allows to discriminate the contribution by different phonon modes while accounting for scattering to all orders. The software packages described here are made available to the scientific community as free and open-source software in order to encourage the more widespread use of these techniques as well as their evolution through continuous and collaborative development.